#Javascript Introduction

__What does Javascript do? What is Javascript?__

Javascript is a scripting language for HTML. It is used to change elements, change HTML attributes and styles, and show/hide elements.

In Javascript programming, the program is read by the computer chronologically, line by line.

The syntax uses __semi-colons__ to end a line, similar to CSS. The indentation is also similar to any other language.

##Script Tag

Similar to CSS, Javascript has to be added to HTML. The ```<script></script>``` tag can be added to the ```<head>``` or ```<body>```. Inside this tag is where you should be placing your Javascript code.

__However, it is best habit to put the ```<script></script>``` tags at the bottom of the ```<body>```. This is to prevent the page from loading too slowly because scripts slow down the page.__

Note: Instead of putting Javascript in the HTML, you can also have an external Javascript page that you link to the HTML page, similar to CSS linking.

##Syntax

A computer program is a list of "instructions" to be "executed" by the computer.

In a programming language, these program instructions are called __statements.__

__It is a good habit to space out the operators to make the statement more readable.__

```js
var x = 5;
var y = 6;
var z = x + y;
```

Regarding semi-colons, they are actually optional and will not affect the running of your program, however it is an extremely good habit to keep semicolons after each statement.

JavaScript is a __case-sensitive language__. This means that the language keywords, variables, function names, and any other identifiers must always be typed with a consistent capitalization of letters.

##Variables

In a programming language, variables are used to store data values. Variables are like containers that hold a value that can be changed or used later in the program.

JavaScript uses the var keyword to declare variables. There are different data types in variables, but we will get to those next day. Variable names must have an underscore, a dollar sign or letters. Numbers are not allowed for the first character of a variable name.

__There is a certain styling to variable names. They should be simple and descriptive. Also, they should either be camel case such as thisIsAVariable or with an underscore after every word in the variable such as this_is_a_variable. In camel case, the first word will be lowercase. Use one style or the other.__

__An equal sign is used to assign values to variables.__

In this example, x is defined as a variable. Then, x is assigned (given) the value 6:

```js
var x;
x = 6;
```

JavaScript uses __arithmetic operators__ ( + - *  / ) to compute values. Modulus or % is used to find the remainder in an expression.

```js
var x;
x = 4 % 2;
```

##Line Breaks, Line Spacing

For best readability, programmers often like to avoid code lines longer than 80 characters.

If a JavaScript statement does not fit on one line, the best place to break it, is after an operator:
```js
document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML =
"Hello Dolly.";
```

##Comments
Comments are used to explain Javascript code. It is used often in larger projects so other people working on the project can understand the code. __The best comments are used to explain why something is coded, not what is coded.__

They can also be used to prevent execution of certain lines of code.
```html
   <!--
   
      // This is a comment. It is similar to comments in C++
   
      /*
      * This is a multiline comment in JavaScript
      * It is very similar to comments in C Programming
      */
   
   //-->
```
