#Variables and Data Types

Variables are containers that hold values. Now the containers can be different sizes and hold different types of values. These are called data types.

Javascript allows you to work with three different types of data types:
* Numbers (decimal or not)
* Strings ("This is a string")
* Booleans (true or false values)

The importance of data types show when you try to print out different types of values.

Note: In other languages, there may be a difference between integer values and float values. In Javascript, there is no distinction and all numbers are represented by float values.

__Javascript uses dynamic/untyped data types which means that a variable can use different data types.__

```js
var x;               // Now x is undefined
var x = 5;           // Now x is a Number
var x = "John";      // Now x is a String
```

##Variable Initialization
Storing a value in a variable is called __variable initialization__. You can do variable initialization at the time of variable creation or at a later point in time when you need that variable. You can also use variable initialization to change values in the variable, the same way you would initially assign it a value.

For instance, you might create a variable named money and assign the value 2000.50 to it later. For another variable, you can assign a value at the time of initialization as follows.

```js
var name = "Ali";
var money;
money = 2000.50;
money = 505.10;
```

Note: Use the var keyword only for declaration or initialization, once for the life of any variable name in a document. You should not re-declare same variable twice.

##Strings
A string (or a text string) is a series of characters like "John Doe". Strings are written with quotes.
```js
var carName = "Volvo XC60";   // Using double quotes
```

We will learn more about strings in future lessons.

##Boolean
Booleans can only have two values: true or false.
```js
var x = true;
var y = false;
```

A pretty simple concept, but be sure to understand what they are because booleans will be used for conditional testing later.

##Null & Undefined
These two values are not commonly used, however if you want to learn more about them...

In JavaScript, a variable _without a value_, has the value __undefined__.
```js
var person; //or the next line
person = undefined;
```

In JavaScript __null__ is _"nothing"_. It is supposed to be something that _doesn't exist_.
```js
var person = null; 
```

##Lesson 2 Archive:
[2a. Variables & Data Types](https://github.com/burnabysouthprogramming/Javascript-Lessons/blob/master/Lesson-2/2a.%20Variables%20%26%20Data%20Types.md)

[2b. Operators](https://github.com/burnabysouthprogramming/Javascript-Lessons/blob/master/Lesson-2/2b.%20Operators.md)

[Exercises](https://github.com/burnabysouthprogramming/Javascript-Lessons/blob/master/Lesson-2/Exercises.md)
